# Security-Report
Demonstrates my ability to ensure my code is secure by writing a security report for a hypothetical company, Artemis Financial.

## Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
In this scenario, I work for a software engineering company named Global Rain (GR). A consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their customers named Artemis Financial (AF) has delegated GR with the task of creating custom, secure RESTful web application programming interface (API). This API will handle sensitive data concerning savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. GR must identify and address any existing security vulnerabilities. Specifically, GR must add a file verification step to ensure secure communications in the form of a checksum. 

## What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
When finding the client's software security vulnerabilities, I succeeded in thoroughly and meticulously addressing each vulnerability. I eliminated existing vulnerabilities in batches by efficiently applying troubleshooting and correction methods. It is of the highest importance to code securely. For companies to function properly in the modern era, it is crucial to be able to send and receive sensitive data securely. In the world of cybersecurity, there are constantly new threats emerging. As an aspiring professional software engineer, my goal when developing software is to mitigate and eliminate as many of these threats as possible. Similarly, software security is invaluable to a company's overall wellbeing. A company's security or lack of security can single-handedly determine the public's perception of their reputation. Any company that has a disproportionately large number of data breaches will quickly lose business. Software security promotes and enhances a company's overall wellbeing.

## What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
The part of the vulnerability assessment that was the most helpful to me was securing the web application's communications. This skill is essential to any web developer's toolkit as many internet users are, understandably, suspicious of web applications that lack the HTTPS protocol. 

## How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
To increase the layers of security of the Artemis Financial web application, I used various tools including manual review, static testing using the OWASP Maven Dependency Check plugin, an algorithm cipher, a generated certificate, a checksum verification, and the HTTPS protocol. These are some of the basic methods of increasing a web application's security that I will continue to employ to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use in the future. 

## How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
In order to make sure the code and software application were functional and secure, I employed a three-step method. First, I would write some code. Then, I ran the application. Finally, I used static testing to check for known vulnerabilities and used that data to inform my next code changes. This method was repeated until the only vulnerabilities that remained were very recent, relatively minor vulnerabilities that had not yet been patched. The alerts for these minor vulnerabilities were then suppressed until they can be addressed later on. 

## What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
The resources I used that will be helpful to me in the future include the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) website, the National Vulnerability Database (NVD), and official Oracle documents. The tool I found most helpful was the OWASP Maven Dependency Check plugin. The main coding practice that I plan to continue employing throughout my software engineering career is including security methods at every layer of software development. This includes cross-checking any existing or newly written code with reputable, up-to-date resources such as CVE and NVD. 

## Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
The completion of this assignment demonstrates to my future employers that I take the implementation of security in every layer of software development very seriously. It demonstrates that I can successfully practice cybersecurity because I have the right mindset. This mindset is vigilant and reads about emerging threats. This mindset will help me implement security  at every level of the software development life cycle. 
